# Co-occurrence Matrix for Chandler's Farewell, My Lovely

Above is a technique demoed [here](https://bost.ocks.org/mike/miserables/) by Mike Bostock for mapping character cooccurrence in fictional works. His example is Victor Hugo's Les Miserables. Here, the same analysis is done for Chandler's Farewell, My Lovely.

Broadly speaking, a co-occurrence matrix measures the frequency with which two characters appear together in a fictional work. Our measure of 'togetherness' is chapter; while this is an arbitrary unit, it is the most typical subdivision in literature, breaking the work into smaller 'works' that (unless we're getting very postmodern) have a reasonable degree of internal coherence. What we are thus achieving with a measure like co-occurrence is a rough estimation of character relatedness; if characters tend to reoccur together, we may be able to assert that their relationship to each other, and to certain aspects of the plot, is strong.

There are all kinds of complications (the least of which is postmodernism) that may or may not undercut co-occurrence's explanatory power. In a word, the choice of work matters. Chandler is a good demonstration of the strengths and weaknesses of the technique: because his books are written in the first-person, Marlowe is always present. Obviously, this tells us nothing about Marlowe except that he's protagonist; but it does tell us something important about Chandler: that there is very little that is experimental about Chandler's ouvre. His books are straightforward and character-driven. The reader, qua Marlowe, is always there. And if two characters appear in the same chapter, they are more often than not involved in that part of Marlowe's investigations, and are therefore related to Marlowe (and each other) in a similar way.

While this is a crib of Bostock, it is technically a bit different. The matrix was constructed in a componentized form using React: what this means is that the matrix itself, and its rows, columns, and cells, are each a component that handles some part of the rendering process. What this means is that the matrix is reusable: given any set of correctly formatted data, we can produce the same visualizations. I plan on including the same analysis of all of Chandler's major works, as well as some of his short stories.
